The Joe Rogan experience.
Well, what you said made me think of one of the hardest stories I ever did.
I did a, an article for the new Yorker about the sons of Jim Jones.
Oh. And, uh, not everybody died in Jonestown. Uh,
he had three sons,
two of em were adopted and they were playing a basketball tournament in
Georgetown, Giana, Gianna. And, um, this,
this story took place when I, you remember the branched videos.
Yeah. Now that you're a Texan, you know, it's just up the road Waco. Yeah. Uh,
my editor at the new Yorker at the time was Tina brown and she, uh,
she asked me to go, you know, right about the branch D videos. And I said, Tina,
there are more reporters than branch Dividians up there right now. I couldn't,
you know,
but what I was had been watching the news coverage and just before
the place was called Rancho apocalypse,
which was turned out to be really appropriate.
But they sent before the configuration,
they sent out a, a van with children, you know,
who had grown up in this community. And these kids, you know, as they,
they drove past the ATF and the FBI lines and then the media line,
and you could see these children looking out the windows,
they were leaving behind everybody.
They knew they were leaving behind the only world they knew.
And they were going into what, and I thought, what happened to those kids?
This must have happened. You know, what will happen to those?
It must have happened to children elsewhere.
And so I started doing some investigation and I found out that, you know,
Jones had these three kids, uh, three young boys. They were, well,
they were young men. Um,
and there was Jim Jr. Who was black. Uh,
and then there was Steven and, uh,
who was the natural son and there was two M Jones. And, um,
for whatever reason,
they hadn't talked to anybody and they agreed to talk to me. Wow. Uh,
and perhaps it had to do with, you know,
the branch Dividian thing that was going on at that same time.
So this was in the early nineties. Yeah. It was 15 years after Jones. Um,
it was a, actually almost exactly 15 years. And, uh,
there's a cemetery in Oakland where
many of, most of the 900 bodies were buried and there's,
they took a earth mover and, and took a down,
you know, half of a hill.
And then they stacked all the caskets up and covered it again.
But it still has this distortion. And you can see, you know,
what remained of the, the, the Jonestown followers.
But it was interesting to me that the people who
joined the Jones cult were all
good people. They were all, you know,
it was started in Indianapolis and then it moved to the bay area and they was
largely a, uh, you know, largely black, uh,
Jones was, uh, very, very progressive, you know, on race.
Uh, and, uh, but you know, a lot of, uh, good-hearted people involved in it.
And he was a, a big figure in San Francisco at the time politically, you know,
his, his support was sought after, you know, he was admired as a,
a community leader,
but he totally crazy and paranoid and suddenly decided
he had to remove the entire group. And you can't tell your family, you know,
can't tell anybody you're going just to, you know,
he sent his sons down to Giana to clear the jungle so that they could make
this village. And, uh, and then overnight they move, you know,
nearly a thousand people to south America and leaving
behind all their friends, their jobs and stuff like that. One day, you know,
they they've been, you know, uh, removed. They've been, uh, raptured,
you know, off to south America. And so
I was interested, you know, that, you know, in learning more about it, but,
uh, these, these, you know,
young men were totally haunted, but you would,
you would certainly relate to Tim Jones.
He was physically one of the very powerful, you know,
Pearl, you know, a hundred pounds with either hand, you know, he,
but he couldn't, he couldn't get on an elevator. Uh,
the last time he tried to do an airplane flight. I mean,
this has been years ago. I don't know if it's changed for him now, but he was,
he made the airplane turn around and drop him off at the gate,
uh, which is hard to do. But when you're, you know,
as physically overpowering as Tim was, you know, he's a,
he's kind of a formidable figure. And, um,
so he just had all sorts of anxieties. So I went to talk to him and, um,
he, he said, I'll do it on one condition.
We have to do it in a public place. You know,
restaurant someplace where I won't cry. And I want my wife there,
cuz I never told her about it. And wow,
it's a little hard for me to tell this story because
we went to a restaurant
and within five minutes he was crying, you know,
and pounding the table. And the waiter was keeping his distance.
People in the restaurant were, you know, frightened.
And he told the story of going back.
He's the one who had to identify 900 people,
his, his natural birth parents, his adopted parents.
He had a wife and children then too. They were all dead. Everybody was dead
and
I've never forgotten the power of,
of a religious belief and a personality like Jim Jones,
who could persuade all those people to stay with him,
train them in this, you know, suicide drills night after night, you know,
and then one day it's real. And um, you know,
the boys felt guilty because they thought if they had been there,
uh, they might have been able to stop it, but probably not.
Catch new episodes that Joe Rogan experience for free only on Spotify,
watch back catalog Jr E videos on Spotify,
including clips easily seem a switch between video
and audio experience on Spotify.
You can listen to the JRE in the background while using other apps and can
download episodes to save on data cost. All for free.
Spotify is absolutely free.
You don't have to have a premium account to watch new JRE episodes.
You just need to search for the Jerry on your Spotify app.
Go to Spotify now to get this full episode of the Joe Rogan experience.